ORIGINAL TEXT:
It's time to speak out, Isko and Iska!

I am Ma. Ysabella Cruz, currently taking up BA English Studies, and I am against the conferment of an Honorary Law doctorate by the UP Board of Regents to President Rodrigo Duterte.

By giving honor to a man who challenges basic human decency, discourages public dissent, promotes a culture of impunity, and lauds extra-judicial killings, UP has taken a major step backward in upholding Honor and Excellence.

How can UP tell its graduates to "serve the people" if it gives legitimacy to a man who'd rather kill the people than rehabilitate them?

How can UP claim to be against fascism if it gives legitimacy to a man who buried Marcos as a hero and shows signs of being a dictator himself?

#NoDegreeForDuterte #DuterteNotWorthy


SENTIMENT ANALYSIS
After analyzing one of my Facebook posts from last April about the UP Board of Regents’ plan to confer an honorary Law doctorate on Duterte, Tone Analyzer showed that the dominant emotion in the post was disgust at 55% (0.55) likely, followed by sadness at 20% (0.20) likely and anger at 19% (0.19) likely. The language style was predominantly analytical at 40% (0.40), followed by confident at 30% (0.30). The social tendencies displayed in the post, from most to least evident, were: openness at 58% (0.58), conscientiousness at 34% (0.34), emotional range at 32% (0.32), extraversion at 28% (0.28), and agreeableness at 22% (0.22).


ASSESSMENT
I believe that this is a generally accurate assessment of my post. Duterte really does disgust me, among other things—but he (and his supporters) also make me angry, and I was surprised that the sentiment analysis didn’t reflect that. (Maybe it was because of the word choice?)

The analytical and conscientious sentiments were evident in the last two sentences of the post before the hashtags. Instead of appealing to emotion, I gave logical reasons why giving Duterte an honorary Law doctorate would contradict everything that UP has traditionally stood for, thus making the university as a whole lose credibility and sound hypocritical.

I was also surprised at the assessment of openness (the extent a person is open to experience a variety of activities), because it was apparently most evident in the third paragraph. Maybe it’s because that paragraph has a list of various actions (though they’re not ones I would like to experience myself!)?
