I. Original Text : The Laughable World of Consumerism: The King of Comedy and its Implications by Remwell H . Medina
 
        The Laughable World of Consumerism: The King of Comedy and its Implications
 
            In his book, Ways of Seeing, John Berger argued that “publicity is the culture of the consumer society” (138). This statement implies that an individual’s primary obligation is to perpetually acquire goods in order to render one’s own self “enviable” (131). Berger also defined publicity as “the process of manufacturing glamour”, wherein glamour is established on the principle of “being envied” (131). In some sense, this notion of publicity gives us the impression that we have the liberty to choose the way we want to express ourselves (an expression through one’s material acquisitions)and also the idea that there is always room for self-growth and improvement. However, the emphasis of Berger’s discourse lies in the repercussion of publicity on the consumers as it subverts their fixation away from reality into the publicity’s world of fantasy and daydreams, and into a world of eternal bliss and glamour. This idea of disengagement from the real and tangible world also resonates in Martin Scorsese’s film The King of Comedy through the movie’s characters, but mainly through its protagonist Rupert Pupkin(played by Robert De Niro):an uninteresting man with psychopathic tendencies who has an obsession for celebrities -especially for  celebrity comedian Jerry Langford(played by Jerry Lewis)- and also stardom as he himself aspires to be a critically acclaimed comedian .
  The aim of this paper is to display how Scorsese’s film reaffirms Berger’s argument on the negative implications of publicity on the consumers’ existential priorities and their discernment on what is to be considered real. I also argue that The King of Comedy is a movie ahead of its time, as the obnoxious aspects of consumerism presented in the movie is still evident at the present . As the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche said,  “There is always some madness in love. But there is always, also, some method in madness” (Thus Spoke Zarathustra pt.1; ch.7); this is what Scorsese’s movie offers us the spectacle of insanity exhibited by the characters of the film –in how they act and interact- while Berger’s book gives the rationale behind such behaviors.
  “No man is an island”(Devotions Upon Emergent Occasions),within a single phrase,the English poet John Donne was able to capture the fundamental truth that human beings are social animals.With this sociality comes a necessity for a social contract and in the case of a consumerist society, the societal imperative is for one to consume in the promise of publicity. Rupert Pupkin, the protagonist of Scorsese’s film, is a good example of an adherent of consumerism. Rupert consummates the contract as he buys into the publicity image sold by the celebrity Jerry Langford that everyone has the opportunity to be famous – which in Jerry’s case is being a comedian. Rupert further reinforces his belief in this promise of publicity through his own words in his argument with Rita (Rupert’s beloved), who seems skeptic about his envisaged success as a comedian, as he uttered that “A guy can get anything he wants as long as he pays the price” (The King of Comedy).
  From this affinity to the idea of belonging –by means of consumption and publicity- springs the first complication of publicity: it is the idea that one must transform one’s own self to be -as much as possible- enviable and admirable. Such presentation is necessary or else, one would be rendered as a mere apparition -or in Berger’s own words “faceless”(Ways of Seeing 143) whose existence is of the least relevance. Rupert, who can be perceived as the physical embodiment of this state of facelessness, is ironically  in denial of. In the film, Rupert was portrayed to have had a scarring yet, uninteresting history: apathetic parents who are also alcoholics, his lack of mental prowess which lead to a series of failing grades and humiliations. These events then molded Rupert into this repulsive oddball who struggles to develop any enduring real-life relationship. Film critic Christina Marie Newland, in her own critic of the movie, perfectly describes the essence of Rupert and what motivates him to continually insist that he is not just some ordinary guy:
 
  The desire to be seen and idolized. This desire is what consumes De Niro’s Rupert, a twitchy, perennially polite wannabe comedian who refuses to take no for answer when he meets his idol, Jerry Langford. (Satirical Excess and Empty Vessels: Martin Scorsese’s The King of Comedy)
The motif employed by Scorsese can also be connected to the idea that Rupert represents the state of facelessness. It is through the motif of forgetting. The  premise of this motif is that individuals who lack the glamour and seductiveness are easily forgotten in a consumerist society as if they were mere apparitions with no identity of themselves at all.The manifestation of this motif in the movie lies in how most of the people whom Rupert had introduced himself tend to forget what his name is and worse, get it wrong. This strengthens the established image of Rupert as that of a passable individual lacking any exceptional traits.
  The aspect of publicity which Berger is most critical of is its ability to manufacture an alternate version of reality for the sake of its own benefit, on how it brought forth a reality “translated in its own terms” (150). Publicity proposes an imagined version of the world which is “offering itself to us” turning it into a place where there is no pleasure: a world “beyond conflict” (150). In the case of Scorsese’s film, the focus is on the alternate image produced by the television. How does the television render the real world and how does it distort reality? In response to such questions, French sociologist Jean Baudrillard describes in his book, The Consumer Society: Myths and Structures what rendition of the world is the television able to produce:

The TV image, like a window turned outside-in, opens initially on to a room and, in that room, the cruel exteriority of the world becomes something intimate warm –warm with perverse warmth. (35)
The character of Jerry Langford is seen in his image in front of the screen as well as that behind the camera and the manner of the audience –the consumers- in reaction to both images. The public image of Jerry Langford nurtured on his television show is that of a charismatic man who has a natural talent for comedy. He also projects an image as that of a “people person” as he casually walks the street with no guards, interacting with the pedestrians he meets. What is concealed however are the other mundane aspects which make him a complete human being: it is that he is also capable of anger, of self-doubt, of suspicion and fear. This then is what the audience fails to see; it is that they mistook the Jerry Langford seen in their television as the totality of who Jerry Langford really is. The result therefore is a delusion in which the consumers mistook publicity images as actual representations of the world.  Berger describes this as an obsession for daydreams (Ways of Seeing 146).
            Coincidentally, the film also has its own share of daydreaming serving as a major motif in the movie which again is done through the character of Rupert. His first daydream is on his inevitable fame as he replaces Jerry Langford making him the new King of Comedy. The rest of them would be that of the same element: daydream-idealization of the different people in his life such as himself, Jerry -his idol- and Rita -Rupert's beloved. The film then later reveals that Rupert now is dwelling in the realm of fantasy as he takes these daydreamt scenarios and individuals as more real that what he actually is in contact of.
However, the problem does not only end here. Another dilemma posed by publicity is that it generates hostility and selfishness. It is because the main preoccupation in a consumerist society is centered on the self. Just by the examination of this quotation , “You are what you have “ (Berger 139): it is clearly evident how it focuses only on the subject you which implies the consumer’s self. This now produces egocentric individuals who never consider lending their ears unless what they hear is consistent with their own biases. This phenomenon- until the end- still holds true to The King of Comedy. Rupert is the primary source of this hostility such as in the scene wherein he abducts Jerry after he (Jerry) blatantly proclaims that Rupert is just a naive and ignorant person who can’t take a hint that he is still a bland comedian. This shattering of his own idealized perception of who Jerry is what generates this hatred and frustration for it is inconsistent with the homogenous perspective or rather delusions of Rupert caused by his obsession for publicity . One must also take note that this is not an isolated case in terms of the film. This also occurs in a scene where an old lady on the street wish that Jerry gets cancer because he turned a cold shoulder to her .In order to fully understand this concept, one can just look back to Plato’s “Allegory of the Cave” where deluded characters can be compared to the savage and unenlightened prisoners who murdered the man who was able to liberate himself from the delusion induced by the shadows.
These pathetic aspects of Rupert thereby confirm that he indeed is The King of Comedy as his existence solely revolves around the promises of publicity and that he became a slave of this delusion doing appalling things in the name of fame. Film critic William Miller concludes on the character of Rupert in this manner:
 
So Rupert can be understood as an existential clown, a comedian who is his own perpetual joke; he is unpopular both within the film and as a watchable protagonist because of his innate ability to remind us of our own human faults (qtd. In Satirical Excess and Empty Vessels: Martin Scorsese’s The King of Comedy).
 
  Why was it ahead of its time? It is because it was able to predict how people would just do anything just for the sake of uplifting their fame even if it accomplished through nefarious means. Take into consideration politicians such as Donald Trump of the United States and Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines: presidents who are responsible for making hasty decisions, creating terrible policies and speeches that induce racism, hatred and discrimination against minority groups. Specific examples are the xenophobic remarks made by Trump on Mexicans and Muslims and in the case of Duterte, his insensitive rape joke on an Australian missionary who got violated in Davao. All of these absurdities are done for the sake of publicity and also are the outcome of the phenomenon of publicity itself.
  The film does not only acknowledge that this culture of publicity is problematic but it also stresses this message that somewhere out there lurks another Rupert Pupkin which actually can be anybody, anyone of us given that we are all susceptible to such tendencies in this predominantly consumer world.

II.  Sentiments Analysis using Webtools :
A. Tone Analyzer : Uploaded as PDF file in the 1stexam repository (Summary of the Anaylsis down below)
     
     According to the application , The main emotions which likely are present within the text are Joy and Sadness having scores of 0.56 and 0.53 respectively . Other emotions which the application categorized as unlikely to be associated with the text are Anger , Disgust and Fear which only had 0.17 , 0.17 and 0.09 respectively.
      In terms of language style, the application categorized the text as being analytic as it was able to register a score of 0.82 while confidence and tentative  barely had scores having only 0.00 and 0.01 which implies that it is unlikely of the text at all.
      Lastly,in terms of social tendencies , Openness registered the highest score of 0.97 followed by extraversion which got 0.45 and then emotional range which got 0.26 and finally agreeableness and conscientiousness which only got 0.13 as their score.
      
B.rntn  : PROXY ERROR
C. DecarboNet : Website ERROR
D. Text2data : Gateway Timeout

III. Assessment of the Sentiments Anaylysis
A . Tone Analyzer
  In terms of emotion, the tool identifying the text as that which expresses sadness is quite accurate for the tone of the text is that which implies dissappointment of the human race given that it is discussing a pervading pathos within a media saturated society. However, I do find it weird that it categorizes a critical paper as primarily a text which expresses happiness thought it might be accounted for the application's miscontextualization of a word frequent within the text which is "comedy". The application is also quite accurate when it comes to highlighting the small fragments of anger and disgust present within the text.
   The application also is accurate in categorizing the language style of text as analytical given that the text serves as an academic essay for the purpose of comparing two textual materials: a film and a book which complements or rather implicity support each other's arguments. I do find it questionable why the text is not considered as that which is either tentative or confident given that the word I used in the essay were words commonly used in writing an objective paper which implies certainty. It might be just be a  conflict between the application and my own understanding of the words "confidence" and "certainty". 
    With regards to the social tendencies of the text , I do agree that it being classified as a text which is very likely to be that of openness given that I have cited sources from different disclipines ranging from literature , philosophy and also sociology. I do also agree that the text provided was that of extraversion even though it did not register higher than five (only 0.45) given that the nature of my paper is that which is open to criticisms and engagement. 
     From my observation of the application, I see it as that which is only capable of handling the text  by breaking it down to its  elementary elements which are words rather than a whole body or system of text . It is therefore guilty of miscontextualizing the tone of a certain statement. A human translator or mediator is therefore needed for the interpretation and judgment of the date provided by such tools.
    

   
   





  
  
  
  
  
  
