*ORIGINAL TEXT*
"CULTIVATING HISTORICAL RESISTANCE: THE ECOLOGICAL POLITICS OF MERLINDA BOBIS’ LOCUST GIRL: A LOVESONG"

To elucidate on the purpose of reading in human life, in 1978, scholar William Rueckert exclaimed that literature functions in the biosphere as a reservoir of energy. The consumption of literary texts (sometimes through the mediation of critics and teachers) commences the flow of energy within the reading community, which in turn translates such energy into social action (Glotfelty xxvii). Needless to say, the ecological, and thereby political , role of literature is now more needed than ever. According to historian Dipesh Chakrabarty, human history—operating in the Western framework of linear development— has reached a tipping point. The current stage of capitalism, now in the phase of imperialistic globalization, accentuates our historical entry to the Anthropocene age, where human beings become the primary agents of natural and environmental change in more palpable ways (qtd. in Loomba 260-261). History itself requires us to grasp time “on a different—even non-human—scale altogether” (261).
For its capacity to reflect upon the causes of social and ecological crises (Moylan xxii), science fiction appears to be a promising literary mode for the expression and problematization of Chakrabarty’s concerns. In the Philippine literary scene, Merlinda Bobis’ Locust Girl: A Lovesong exemplifies such a mode. Instead of setting the novel in a Philippine context like her other works , Bobis locates Locust Girl in a far-off, unrecognizable space and time. Described as “a futuristic nightmare of an environmental and human apocalypse” by the Australian poet Maria Takolander , Locust Girl is set decades after a global war culminated in a massive restructuring of the world order. Control of what is left of Earth is seized by an institution called the Five Kingdoms, which we later realize to have evolved from a strategic coalition of erstwhile imperialist countries (Bobis 100). 
The narrative details the experiences of Amedea, the eponymous Locust Girl (LG), after she awakens from a 10-year anabiotic  sleep with a locust embedded on her brow. As LG meets a coterie of denizens from both sides of the border—a barricade set up by the Five Kingdoms to ward off outsiders, we learn the ecological rationale behind what appears to be an oppressive world order: people who do not possess the capacity to conserve the environment are withheld outside the border where the scarcity of resources can only barely keep them alive. 
Although clear in its project to foreground the degenerate socio-economic and environmental dimensions of the text’s present, Locust Girl, I believe, remains open to question, especially as regards the intersections among history, politics, and ecology construed in the narrative. This study aims to critique the science fiction novel’s depiction of environmental history in relation to the socio-economic model of Bobis’ foreboding picture of Earth. Framing history/ies as the site/s of ecological crisis, this paper argues that Merlinda Bobis’ Locust Girl: A Lovesong, by failing to maximize the potential of its protagonist, demonstrates the incapability of society to disavow the (fallacious) linear progress of history towards postnaturality, a condition symptomatic of the Anthropocene age, where nature—in its ecological sense—is valued solely as an economic advantage (Deitering 201). 
	This study shall approach the text with an eco-Marxist stance, which underscores the bearing of political economy to the natural environment. It follows that the ruination of the environment is occasioned by systems of domination or exploitation between human beings (Garrard 28). As such, this paper argues that the novel depicts a permutation of an imperialist world order while calling attention to the ecological basis of the model. 
The course of analysis shall be structured as follows. I shall first explicate the implications of the novel’s science fiction mode. Under the assumption that science fiction constructs a future in order to problematize its historical past, I shall articulate the world order depicted in the narrative in ecological terms. I shall end the first section by linking the preceding analysis to imperialism as a socio-economic model, which, I believe, informs and is determined in the text. The second section shall contextualize the political machinations of the narrative as part of environmental history, which appears to operate in a linear framework of development. In this section, I shall flesh out the various modes of historicization construed in the text and their relation (either complicity or resistance) to the preconditions of the narrative’s historical present. 

Dystopia and the Ecological Roots of the Imperialism
To carry out the project of heightening political and environmental consciousness, which the novel seems to attain on the surface, Locust Girl constructs a world that suffers from the scarcity of natural resources due to (in)human activities. Set in a post-apocalyptic future, it is no far-cry to consider the novel as a work of science fiction. As expected, defining SF will be polemic, but to pitch the parameters of the analysis, we shall take science fiction to mean a text whose “whose main device is an imaginative framework alternative to the author’s empirical environment” (Suvin qtd. in Roberts 7-8). This framework is wrought from postulated scientific discoveries or, in the case of Locust Girl, spectacular environmental changes (3-4). 
Moreover, science fiction (SF) is inseparable from its political occupation because the alternative world it creates interrogates the author and reader’s present by forming (dis)connections with it (Smith 2-3). In this way, SF becomes what critic Frederic Jameson calls an “archaeology of the future” (in contrast to a “forecast of the past”) as it inscribes a nascent sense of the future in the present time of the narrative (qtd. in Smith 8). In other words, SF determines both a future (which functions as the narrative’s historical present) and a past (contingent to the readers’ understanding of the future), through which it proffers a critique of the socio-political conditions that link the two timelines. Of course, not all writers “exhaust the critical reach of the genre as realized in visionary artists like [H.G.] Wells and [Ray] Bradbury”, whose works reveal the stresses and contradictions of civil society, which, in Wells and Bradbury’s case, is imperial history (13). 
Considering its eco-Marxist framework and the above pretension ascribed to science fiction, this study shall take into account the sociological environs of the novel’s production. Published in 2015 first in Australia—where the author is currently residing—and later in the Philippines, Bobis’ Locust Girl is set against a background of historical tensions. One of these is globalization, a part of the imperial project that continues to search for “new markets […] raw materials, goods and labour [sic]” across the world, resulting a loss of rights over nature for the sake of the expansion of capital and generation of profit (Loomba 256, 258). Simply said, the progress of history in a linear imperialist model compels us to compromise nature. As mentioned in the beginning of this paper, this historical crisis is a precondition to Chakrabarty’s Anthropocene age.
To call attention to this crisis, through a dystopian mode, the novel reduces the political complexity of this imperialist socio-economic model down to its ecological basis. A specific configuration of science fiction, dystopia is a “negative narrative machine [that produces] challenging cognitive maps of the historical situation by way of imaginary societies” that are even worse than those that lie outside our doors (Moylan xi). Such narratives develop around an alienated protagonist’s recognition of (1) “the situation for what it really is,” and (2) the relationship between [individual] experience with the operation of the entire system” (xiii). 
In the narrative of Locust Girl, the socio-economic structures that generate the dystopian situation boil down to two contingent policies: (1) bioregionalism as a basis for class segregation, and (2) an economic system that falsely works on the premise of equality.
Bioregional Segregation. As mentioned earlier, in the narrative, the vestiges of the planet are governed by a sovereign institution: “from far away, in a place unknown even in [people’s] dreams, the Five Kingdoms issued [the] laws (Bobis 10). The Kingdoms, “the last green home on earth,” is constituted of “the Kingdom of Waters, the Kingdom of Seeds, the Kingdom of Oils, the Kingdom of Colors, [and] the Kingdom of Fires” (101). The four of these ‘Kingdoms’ house the remaining freshwater source, grain fields, oil deposits, and flower patches, respectively, while the fifth acts as the makeshift state’s defensive unit. Fire is used to ward off outsiders from the border and, should they show signs of dissent, to destroy their villages (137-139).  
The governance of both the Five Kingdoms and its outskirts (the rest of the world, simply said) is led by the Honorable Head Zacarem, who “re-thought this earth and found that it is good.” He claims to have stopped the wars and have brought justice and lasting peace to all territories (149). Kingdom builders (the denizens of the Five Kingdoms) regale Zacarem as the mind behind the classification of and separation between the carers and the wasters. “To keep life simple, countries were dismantled and the basic gifts were given to everyone according to everyone’s capacity to care for them,” explains Verompe, a carer whom LG meets in a queue for rations (104). The planet is a single polity structured by ecological principles. Carers reside in the bountiful Kingdoms, while wasters must survive in a dessert devoid of natural resources. 
This geopolitical segregation is founded upon the principles of bioregionalism, in which “a person’s primary loyalty as citizen [is] to the bioregion—or ecological region” (Buell 91). Refraining from the imposition of political boundaries onto geographical regions (which is how the geography of our present time is constructed), bioregionalism takes into account “actually existing natural regions and their [boundaries]” (Davidson 319). In the narrative, given the polarity of the two remaining bioregions—the little greenery of the Five Kingdoms and the widespread desert, Zacarem spearheads the bifurcation of the planet’s population. The resulting classes, the carers and wasters, must endeavor to maintain a mutual relationship with their environment, as necessitated by bioregional segregation (Buell 91). 
The relationship between each class and its environment is further managed by the Five Kingdoms’ three ministers: Wildimus, the Minister of Mouths; Xuqik, the Minister of Arms; and Ycasa, the Minister of Legs. Xuqik, head of the Kingdom of Fire, maintains the protection of the border—and the eradication of the wasters who get in their way. On the other hand, Ycasa has designed “the border and the routes for walking and running” for wasters in order to keep them away from the Kingdoms (Bobis 141-144). Probably the most complex of the three is Wildimus, who facilitates the distribution and consumption of ‘Songs’ and the radio-like orange boxes that play them. Accused of “co-opting the enemy,” Wildimus, in contrast to other ministers, support the “rehabilitation” of wasters by teaching them the caring values of the Kingdoms (142). He even harbors prostitutes—whom they euphemize as “green trees” (94)—from outside the border. 
State-sanctioned Songs (note the capitalization) serve as the Five Kingdoms’ primary ideological state apparatus , bringing both classes in line. They instruct wasters “of how and where [they] can walk or run, of all the to-ings and fro-ings of the world” (10). Bioregions are mainly organized through the Songs. They also remind carers of their Missions to oversee not only the conservation of natural resources, but the distribution of rations to the wasters:
We will protect you
We will care for you
We will think for you
We will act for you
We will be you
What is yours will be ours
Rejoice, rejoice! You are ours
You are part of Kingdom building. (78) 

The “you” in this Song refers to the wasters, whose survival depends on the generosity of the Kingdom Builders. This Song sums up the two classes’ interplay: that carers ‘protect’ and ‘care’ for the wasters by refusing them of natural resources, which, according to dogma, the latter can only squander. 
The only part of nature upon which wasters can extend their agency is their own bodies, but only partially. Two other policies sanctioned by the Five Kingdoms is the neutralization of colors in the deserts through an ochre rain. “Bright tones make the eyes wish for more brightness and this is not healthy,” explains Wildimus (10). Beenabe, the young stray who finds LG buried deep in the desert, castigates LG for not having just one color (27). She even rubs ochre-colored earth all over LG, whom she fondly calls Beena after her own name, to rid of her pale patches as they approach the border (34). With the duress of fires (Xuqik), the border (Ycasa), and songs (Wildimus), both carers and wasters are coerced to function in their respective bioregions.      
	Reciprocity as an Economic System. To justify the oppressive treatment of wasters, the Five Kingdoms abide by the motto “For symmetry. For equality. For justice” (150, emphasis in original). Since “the wasters are plotting to waste more, or, worse, to steal what the carers worked so hard to preserve,” they have “to be ‘managed’: cared for and rationed” (104). Rations are distributed in different areas, but the long queues take days to finish. While the distribution of rations is ongoing, several youths are smuggled out of the lines and are transported past the border. They will become the Kingdom’s “green trees” (74).
	Given the scant amount of rations—which usually include seeds, oils, and waters, wasters have resorted to illegal underground trading, not only of rations, but of other objects withheld by the carers, such as “fripperies” and colors. When LG calls out such trade as criminal, Hara-Haran and Gurimar, a sister-brother duo of wasters whom LG stumbles upon, rejoinder by asking, “What’s more criminal than selling to us what’s rightfully ours?” (72) In claiming that wasters sell to the carers, the two refer not only to the smuggling of green trees from the lines, but to the price some wasters must pay for sparse rations: their bodies. Verompe, the son of Wildimus and a Kingdom builder working with rations, explains that
Rewards must be equally shared. Must be reciprocal. It was a big word I would later hear in the Five Kingdoms […]
Rewards were reciprocal. Rewards were harvested under the blanket. Eyes here, last good leg there, maybe that hand with the ring. And deeper down, more precious parts that could be traded across the border. 
What is yours will be ours. 
The smell of fear rose with the sun. Among the men scavenging for a heart, a liver, a kidney, my brow decided to betray me (80, emphasis in original). 

To put it as crudely as the situation is, in this economic system, outside settlements function as human farms. Both carers and wasters benefit from the ration lines: while wasters earn their seeds, oils and waters, carers harvest body parts (such as those LG enumerates above) as per the medical demands of their Five Kingdoms. “What is yours [the wasters’] will be ours,” the carers gleefully sing.   
The Five Kingdoms rationalize this unjust economic exchange by appealing to reciprocity, an ecological principle they erroneously observe. In natural systems, “reciprocity expresses balanced and mutual exchanges [that] take place at the most basic energetic level” (Holden “The Natural Model”). To put it differently, a reciprocal exchange entails the equal satisfaction of both parties. In the narrative, the economic system extorts wasters not only by providing them a scant amount of resources in exchange for their lives, but also by the very fact of selling them what are rightfully theirs. This is a structural conflict between the owners of the means of production (the Five Kingdoms) and those who possess only little more than their bodies (Garrard 29). The Five Kingdoms, as a form of government, are responsible for the allocation of resources to fulfill the basic needs of their people, (Duignan “State”) which they fail to do for those residing outside their border. Despite this contradiction, the Kingdoms still assert that the carer-waster dynamic is premised by reciprocal relations.  
Reciprocity, as the Kingdoms observe it, is still based on the bioregionalist segregation of the population. Since wasters cannot cultivate nature, they only deserve a meager portion of nature’s fruits. “Equality is deserved only by those who are willing to care for these gifts,” the Honorable Head asserts (Bobis 150). Instead of “From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs ,” the narrative’s world order suggests that resources must be allocated “to each according to his ability.” In saying this, the now unreliable Zacarem contradicts himself by misconstruing equality as a privilege to those deemed by himself as worthy carers. 
The Imperialist Model. At this point, the political hierarchy between the two classes is undeniable. As we have seen in the above discussion, marooning wasters in the wilderness benefits the Five Kingdoms in two significant ways: (1) the segregation grants the carers’ accumulation of natural (and thus economic) resources; and (2) the “reliance” of the wasters on rations allow for the exploitative activities of carers. Not to mention the “security” measures undertaken by the Five Kingdoms to harm many wasters. On the surface, it seems that wasters are greatly reliant on the benevolence Kingdoms, but at closer scrutiny, the narrative indicates the reverse. The preservation of the Five Kingdoms’ wealth relies on the exclusion of wasters, who, even in their isolation, continue to be vital to the carers’ survival as explained above.    
Although the Five Kingdoms are able to justify this system of oppression in the name of their love and respect for the purity of nature, (148-149) what remains questionable to LG is the determination of these classes. The Locust Girl asks Zacarem, “How do you tell between the carers and the wasters—how can you be sure?” Angrily dodging the question, he replies, “I am always sure […] I’m always-always sure” (149). Zacarem’s insufficient explanation suggests that the separation is arbitrary. The distinction between carers and wasters relies on the capricious decision of those in power. The slogan on equality mentioned earlier must then be changed once more: “to each according to the Honorable Head’s whim.”
Despite appearing utopian to the denizens of the Five Kingdoms, the carer-waster divide is a hellish dystopia to those outside the Kingdoms’ borders, as it augments the large-scale deficiency of natural resources and the other problems generated by the deteriorating environment. Besides this apogee of environmental crisis—which is frightening on its own, an arbitrary segregation of the population and an oppressive economic system top off Bobis’ nightmarish view of the future. Jameson explains that historical and political consciousness “demands a memory of qualitative social change, a concrete vision of the past which we may find completed by the […] conception of some future terminus” (284). As detailed earlier, the production of Bobis’ novel is backgrounded by globalization and the ongoing imperial project (see Loomba). It would be unwieldy, however, to argue that the narrative directly references to these shifts. Nonetheless, Locust Girl invokes political and environmental awareness by calling attention to the above futuristic dilemmas as they appear in what the novel construes as the past—the necessary and sufficient conditions that bolster the plausibility of such a future (Suvin qtd. in Roberts 7). Through this temporal estrangement contingent on a science fiction mode, the novel is able to communicate its insights on imperialism.
The rule of the Five Kingdoms fits the broader conception of imperialism as a system of domination-subordination organized with a metropole or center and its periphery/ies (Said 9). The Five Kingdoms occupy the role of the metropole, which exercises socio-economic control over the rest of the planet inhabited by wasters, the center’s periphery. Interestingly, this interplay between carers-as-metropole and wasters-as-periphery creates impulses of the postcolonial experience of dispossession from land and natural resources (Loomba 252-253). The globalization project foregrounds cultural and technological integration to mask the political agency exercised by imperialist countries (28). This and the other dislocations of the imperial situation constitute the thematic substance of the dystopian mode (Smith 2-4). In an analogous way, the novel conceals the highly political (imperialistic) underpinnings of the narrative’s world order behind the veil of environmental necessity. Through the border (the RSA) and the Songs (the ISA), the Five Kingdoms extend an imperial control over the whole word (or what is left of it anyways). Ultimately, Bobis’ Locust Girl ties the political set-up of the Five Kingdoms with imperialism’s material ecological basis, which, as depicted in the narrative, depends on the extortion of human bodies (being part of the natural environment) and the monopolization and dispossession of natural resources.

History/ies as the Site of Ecological Crisis
Postnaturality and History. Born in the imperialist collision of cultural identities, science fiction is an ideal avenue to critically engage the transitions between consequential points in history, (4) but it seems that to regard the temporal context of Locust Girl as the consequent future of the present as we know it is to conclude that nothing much have changed in history. The ecological condition Bobis’ fictional world, discussed in length in the previous section, remains to be postnatural. Heidegger, in his essay “The Question Concerning Technology,” contends that the West perceives nature as a “standing reserve,” which humans can constantly utilize to fulfill their needs (qtd. in Deitering 199). However, in the postnatural condition (which originally intends to describe our present situation) nature is “already-used-up.” It is already subsumed as an economic source, rendering the conscious need for it superficial (199-201).
The novel does not only demonstrate this condition; it also stresses postnaturality as the most prominent character of the narrative’s world order. Under the rule of the Five Kingdoms, the natural environment is, in the most literal sense, their economic resource. Natural resources such as seeds, oil and water are used as the primary currency of exchange. In effect, they are cut off from their ecological functions. In the waster’s bioregion for instance, seeds are severed from their relation to the soil, nullifying their connotations of life, growth and “blessings” (Bobis 24). This mode of perception, “informed by the rule of private property and money,” exhibits contempt for nature by prompting its practical (and symbolic) degradation (Marx & Engels qtd. in Parsons 17-18).
Furthermore, the Five Kingdoms commodify the human body by reducing its ecological characteristic to exchange value. As explained earlier, wasters sacrifice their sexuality (as green trees/prostitutes) and their body parts in exchange for scant rations (Bobis 80). Above all, wasters imperil their bodies by (unconsciously) consenting to the exploitation of the Five Kingdoms  , sacrificing their natural duties to nourish and sustain the body due to the lack of resources. These manifestations of the postnatural condition coincide with the myth of the linear development of history: they “[propagate] a sacrificial paradigm which calls for the sacrifice of the victim of violence [the Other] for human progress” (Dussel 67). In this dystopian world order, all of nature is commodity and all commodities are nature; what is not considered an economic resource, such as songs (in contrast to state-sanctioned Songs) and bones, is deemed unnatural, and thus is taboo. 
The narrative’s oldest characters, such as Grandfather Opi (a friend of LG) and Zacarem, recount that what used to be “the biggest country directed the greatest fire towards the smaller countries to end all petty fires,” (Bobis 100-101) severing the planet’s history from the (Western) conception of linear development. This History (notice the emphasis)  is the causal past the narrative finds culpable for the dystopian future. The novel proffers that Zacarem’s restructuring of civilization ruptures this linear progression of History in the above explained imperialist ecological condition, which is characterized by the postnatural tendencies of wastefulness and destruction. While it holds true that the Five Kingdoms have “purified the earth and [their] need for it” in order to disavow History, (150) our preceding discussion reveals that the essential need for nature is expunged per se because economics has already seized the place of ecology. There is no demand for nature-as-end at all; carers and wasters aggressively vie for nature-as-economic resource instead. This is no different from the postnatural conditions of imperialism, where “water, land and air or ‘the environmental commons’ are [still] the battlegrounds in many areas of the world” (Loomba 257). Quite reflexively, Zacarem admittedly wonders if “he got [history] all wrong” (Bobis 154).
Perpetuating imperial politics (in its broader conception, as noted earlier) and unable to disavow the imperialistic model of history, the Five Kingdoms cannot claim to have averted Chakrabarty’s Anthropocene age, a historical turnabout that now seems all the more inevitable. Here, the novel suggests that History is the site of ecological crisis.
A Contest of Histories, or Resistance(?). To give an alternative to the Five Kingdoms and their failure to salvage nature (which includes human wasters, whom they implicitly exploit), the narrative calls attention to the subversive potential of the Locust Girl, Amedea. Moylan reminds us that the dystopian narrative culminates in the protagonist’s recognition of the relationship of his or her individual experience with the system (xiii). As such, LG realizes that she is the host of the “unseen songs” from both sides of the border (Bobis 173). 
In mentioning songs here, I do not refer to the state-sanctioned Songs of the Minister of Mouths, nor the verses whirred by the locust every now and then . In a most lyrical and yet cryptic manner, Cho-choli, whom LG wept with for three long years, (59) explains that songs are the perceivable articulations of stories inscribed in human bones (54). In other words, songs emplot  one’s memories, “scattered” within the human body, into a recognizable localized history (as compared to a homogenous History). 
These songs are banned from being played especially outside the border because both carers and wasters, Beenabe later finds out, “are meant to forget their own stories from once upon a time, for good.” This mass amnesia is executed by the distribution of seeds that cause forgetting (157). Wildimus’ Songs reinforce this by estranging the populace farther away from their individual histories. In this light, what LG sings of are silences, (68) the untold or forgotten histories of people. She eventually assumes the post of Shining Lumi, a village prophetess paid by wasters to sing of their individual histories (87-88). Right then and there, the Locust Girl enables a small community of people to sing one collective song that tells of their multifarious individual histories (91). The Five Kingdoms, which pronounce only “one story, one song” (73) as part of a single homogenous History, impugn those who sing their histories as plagues. As such, LG has mobilized a small community not only to collectively sing in opposition to the dominant mode of historicization, but also to cross the Kingdoms’ border in the process. This is the plague the Five Kingdoms have been fearing the moment they heard the Locust Girl sing. 
As shown by the Locust Girl and her capacity to embody multiple songs and stories, “the proper, fitting shape of the novel might be that of a [feminine] sack, a bag,” contrary to the masculine linearity of progress expressed in the epics of yore (Le Guin 152). This carrier-bag capacity of the novel’s female protagonist can possibly challenge the Five Kingdoms’ homogenous conception of History that entails the degradation of nature. Ultimately however, the novel appears to have wasted LG’s subversive potential as a conduit of historical consciousness, right at the moment of turmoil. Hearing from outside the Five Kingdoms the singing of the united wasters (determined to reclaim their right to nature, which includes both their bodies and the planet’s natural resources), LG finds herself in a trail for the charges of 
One, walking to the border. Two, singing. Three, feasting in the wrong season. Four, looking where she should not be looking. Five, disturbing the rooms. Six, spreading ill rumors. Seven, inspiring revolt among the border caretakers. Nine, bringing in the plague. Ten, contaminating the kingdoms. (163) 

Hearing these truthful accusations, it is not hard to recognize LG’s rebellious potential, to which she herself is oblivious. Whenever asked how she would plead, LG would reason that she was passively taken to the border or that she was hungry (164). Remember, she is the embodiment, the carrier-bag of localized histories, not the crux of resistance itself. 
The situation takes a turn for the worse when she is asked to plead against the accusation that she spread the rumors that stirred the wasters. Innocently she replies, “Look at me. I’m proof of the fires—twice I went through them.” By mention of fire, LG arouses the individual experiences and traumas of the carers, who are also the historical victims of the great fire that swallowed up the planet. “No story of comfort could erase the word from the air” (165).
Finally realizing that she is the ‘host’ of the unheard songs of both the wasters and carers, LG’s “body grew, pushed to accommodate all voices from all sides of the border, both desert and green haven, and I couldn’t contain them […] I burst and caught fire” (173). LG suddenly bursts into flame, shocking, and later reassuring, the carers that witnessed her disappearing act. The narrative does end with the girl’s resurrection as a locust, but this leaves both the Five Kingdoms and the resistance forming on the other side of the border in an aporia. We do not get to see the clash of the differing conceptions of history, nor its possible outcomes. The narrative fails to maximize the female protagonist in two ways: (1) by relegating LG into a position of passivity towards her carrier-bag potentiality; and (2) by copping out the necessary encounter between the Five Kingdoms’ History and the populaces collective histories, even though it builds up the tension to such a point. Ultimately, the question of how we readers must grasp history to safeguard our planet remains unanswered in the novel.
While Amedea, now the Locust herself, feels “comfort in the loss of history,” (Bobis 171) we readers cannot find solace, because history as we know it continues to progress in an Anthropocene age that jeopardizes the Earth’s environmental sustainability. The novel does invoke political awareness by providing the means for us “to detect and decipher the ideological mytisifications [sic] [and] the unique manifestations of globalization,” as a work of science fiction (Smith 2). It ties this historical consciousness to an ecological one by revealing the condition of nature within an imperialist socio-political model. What Amedea’s struggle for identity provides us is the possibility of opposing the linear progress of homogenous history—that which leads to postnaturality—through the consolidation of multifarious unheard histories. 
Conversely, Locust Girl divests the very ecological politics it builds up smack at the moment of social action. Although I would like to read LG’s last few songs as her paean to her freedom, her sudden resignation as a conduit of historical consciousness leaves no critical insight on the present order-of-things or the potentials of consolidated resistance. 
Even though there is no denying of the project of Merlinda Bobis’ Locust Girl: A Lovesong to raise political and environmental awareness, the narrative falls short in inspiring social action by aborting the disavowal of a dangerous conception of progress—one that presupposes the domination of humans and the subordination of nature. My call for a radical politics in texts concerning the environment may sound too big an expectation, but knowing the crises of today, we cannot wait for a more appropriate time to read literatures that speak for nature. Lush with—to use Rueckert’s idiom—potential energy, Locust Girl leaves much to be desired. 


*SENTIMENT ANALYSIS*
Using the IBM Watson Developer Cloud Tone Analyzer, the above textual data generated the following results--
-Document Level-
Emotion: Joy is the likely emotion exuded by the document, with 0.58 likelihood. Other emotions such as anger, disgust, fear and sadness, while present, yield an unlikelihood with less than 0.20 presence value. 
Language Style: The analyzer finds the text highly analytical, with 0.79 likelihood. While it shows tentativeness, or inhibition, with 0.04 (un)likelihood, the text shows no sign of confidence, with 0 value.
Social Tendencies: Openness--to variety of experiences and activities, as stated by the app--seems to be the hallmark of the document, with 0.95 likelihood. Its emotional range--the sensitivity to the environment--is likely present by only 0.37, and its conscientiousness (thoughtfulness) runs at 0.40 (un)likelihood. Other tendencies such as extraversion and agreeableness can be detected by only a margin.
- Sentence level-
The app analyzes the document per sentence, and transcribing the humungous results here would consume so much time and effort. It is interesting to note however, that, the section "Dystopia and the Ecological Roots of the Imperialism" expresses the strongest tone among all the parts of the document.


*ASSESSMENT*
- Interpretation of Results – 
According to the IBM Watson Developer Cloud Tone Analyzer, it seems that the overall emotional tone of the text is joyful and positive. Its style is analytical, and it has a tendency to be open to ideas and experiences. 
- Accuracy - 
The textual data is a paper submitted to the class “The Nation and the Novel.” I think that it hit the analytical style of the paper spot on, since it is meant to be a critical approach to a novel in the first place. At the sentence level, for instance, it has determined that the line “To carry out the project of heightening political and environmental consciousness, which the novel seems to attain on the surface, Locust Girl constructs a world that suffers from the scarcity of natural resources due to (in)human activities,” is analytical. As the producer of this text, it holds true: the sentence is supposed to express the thesis statement of the paper.
There are instances of inaccuracy however, and the most explicit manifestation of such is the ascription of the paper’s emotional tone to joy. Joy is the exact opposite of what I intended for the paper. I supposed that the app proposes the presence of joy in the document because of a certain vocabulary that generally, that is, not contextually, connotes positive emotions. 
An example of this sentence is a quotation I lifted from Ania Loomba’s “Colonialism/Postcolonialism”: “One of these is globalization, a part of the imperial project that continues to search for “new markets […] raw materials, goods and labour [sic]” across the world, resulting a loss of rights over nature for the sake of the expansion of capital and generation of profit (Loomba 256, 258).” It talks about how nature degenerates due to imperialist aims—and yet the app finds it as one of the climaxes of joy in the document. Again, it maybe because of a certain lexical field that connotes positive emotions out of context. 
This comparison shows how the app is limited by the algorithms already preset. Should these parameters prove incapable of parsing context, the above mismatches may result. 
- Interface – 
The interface of the app seems to embrace the aesthetic leitmotifs of the 2010’s. Its use of multiple colors, readable fonts, and readily available hyperlinks to quick-guides and in-depth analyses proves that the developers aim to hack a user-friendly app. However, I would rather see the parameters (such as the various emotional tones and social tendencies, which may appear confusing to some) explained right off the bat—maybe even before the execution of the analysis itself. 
- Utility in Digital Humanities Practice –
It seems that IBM Watson Developer Cloud Tone Analyzer will prove quite useful in simple DH projects with bigger data. I would prefer to use it on a bigger data set because I think that, with an expanded dataset, a researcher would be less particular with tiny details. With the above experiment, I am affronted by the lack of accuracy in some results but only because I paid attention to sentence-level detail. 
In the same vein, the projects to be implemented with the program must be simple. Since it cannot parse all contexts, the app might need the researcher to thoroughly cross-examine its output against a manual analysis—a potential requirement that would levy a burden on the researchers.
Then again, the problem may lie with the content I inputted. The app might be more useful with short-form textual data, such as tweets, given the app’s preset vocabulary and algorithms. It won’t be applicable, it seems, with historical documents, which would require a whole different understanding of language. Moreover, it complements (contemporary) English. How about other languages, such as Filipino?
Other issues I found include the inaccessibility of the program’s vocabulary. Since it ascribes certain emotions to words and order of words, I think that it is necessary for linguists and literary scholars to affirm such ascriptions horizontally (that is, historically) and vertically (that is, geopolitically). This requires what Murray-John calls the crit-code studies, or the critical approach to code “texts.” 
- Conclusion - 
The above potential and issues only prove that sentiment analysis with tidy data has a long way to go if it were to find its place in a DHer’s arsenal. In spite of this conclusion, I am still astounded with programs like these; technology is certainly surprising!
 

*BONUS: SENTIMENT ANALYSIS OF THE ABOVE ASSESSMENT*
The results seem to say the same thing: Joy, Analytical and Openness remain to be my writing's tags. Interestingly, the language style is more tentative than the former textual document. Maybe because I'm more ambivalent with the idea of using the app (?)
